Kyle Pavao ReadMe for OS Project 2
COMP 350-001

Compile lines to run this project:

arm-none-eabi-gcc -O0 -mfpu=vfp -mfloat-abi=soft -march=armv6zk -mtune=arm1176jzf-s -nostartfiles 
-g -Wl,-T,rpi.x -I./csud-master/include -o kernel.elf proj2.c proj2-cstartup.c proj2-start.S proj2-cstubs.c -L. -lcsud

arm-none-eabi-objcopy kernel.elf -O binary kernel.img

What my code does and my insight:
So despite all of the trouble I had initially right out of the gate with the compile line errors, 
the coded solution of this project has been fairly simple. All of my original problems were fixed after I changed mfloat to soft and 
put the command to link the csud library at the end of the command. After this I had tested both the return for UsbInitialise() 
(which bugs me because its spelled wrong) and the number of keyboards attached and from there I finished the project with only a small
amount of testing and head scratching. My code basically just initializes the USB and checks to see if there are any keyboards 
attached. Once it does this and everything returns without a problem. The program continually loops by polling the keyboard
and checking the keys pressed and keys modified with each poll. Since I realized that the code can never truly see if a key and
modifier were down at the same time (at least not with the keyboard I used) I had to improvise slightly. After each poll, the program
checks the condition of the keys if there was a key pressed down from A - Z or a number key held down the code outputs 4 dots to 
the LED, if there was a modifier key held down the code outputs a dash to the LED 3 times and if neither of these cases were met
but there was at least one key held, the code output a dash followed by a dot 3 times. The tricky part came in the condition
where both a modifier AND a key from A-Z or a number key were pressed. For these specific cases you will see a for loop that
basically just waits for a split second without the user even being able to notice (but in a machine's sense of time its a lifetime). 
After doing this the code polls the keyboard one more time and then checks the keys held or if there was a modifier held depending 
on whichever was detected first. If the program finds that both conditions of number/letter key and modifier were held down then 
the code outputs 3 dashes followed by 4 dots to the LED. I just wanted to note that although my code is fully commented for the main
project file, the other files my working directory were strictly taken from the tutorials so I did not feel the need to comment 
them since the tutorial alreaddy provides comments for them. Another thing I wanted to relate to you was that if this was not
intended for a school project and  was meant for actual user interaction I would have included a UsbCheckForChange() call inside each
iteration of the while loop. My only fear with this is that you would take points off if I did this, since accordding to the 
documentation this can take a whole second, which in the sense of an operating system is forever. I didn't know which one I should
have done so I just thought I would mention it here. Other than that I am confident that my code meets 100% of your specifications 
for the entire project. I also wanted to thank you for all the help you gave me for the early stages of the project. 

Slight Problem I had:
One very slight problem that I had when writing this, was that I could not make a boolean function that checked to see whether 
an item within the struct was true. I kept getting an error saying that the types were conflicting. My reasoning for doing this
was because from a software engineering standpoint, reusing code in multiple places is a headache for anyone who would have to modify the
code later and since I'll be graduating soon I want to get myself into good habits. The function looked like every other
boolean function I've ever written in my 8 years of programming, it was just called in an if statement and checked to see if the 
function was true by using the line in the long if statement that checks to see if a modifier key was held down. For whatever reason
it would not work. I know that by the time you read this it may be after the final, so have a happy holiday season!


